Hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in metatrader 4.
Today we'll be talking about the genetic outgroup.
So what is the genetic algorithm.
According to Wikipedia in the computer science field of artificial intelligence agent etic algorithm
is a search heuristic that mimics the process of natural selection.
This eristic is routinely used to generate useful solutions to optimization and search problems.
Before we discussed this definition let's have a look at the word heuristic.
So here stick is a technique designed for solving a problem more quickly.
When classic methods are too slow or for finding an approximate solution when classic methods fail to
find any exact solution.
So going back to our definition of genetic algorithm this basically means that a genetic algorithm is
a process that mimics natural selection to find solutions to a problem.
When conventional methods would have taken too long to solve the same problem.
So that basically means that we're getting into the territory of evolution.
That's very exciting.
This means that we're putting together Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence on one hand and
on the other hand we're adding to the mix we're adding evolution and natural selection and combining
those two things that you'd never even think to combine when you're trading the Forex market to get
something absolutely outstanding and something that definitely benefit the process of optimization for
us to understand how exactly this is going to happen.
Let's have a brief look at how natural selection works in nature and then see how that can be applied
to artificial intelligence and optimization of forex robots to extract additional benefits.
So in nature if let's let's look at a giraffe for example originally giraffes probably horses and they
were short.
And then there was scarce food around them so they had to evolve.
And that happened through mutations but we won't go into that.
What happened was some giraffes got their necks became longer and those giraffes survived the ones that
had had short necks just died out because they starved out and they didn't have any children left to
continue their reproduction process and therefore the giraffe flung the next dominated area and so on
.
So they next grew and grew and grew and only the giraffes with the longer necks right.
And so that's the process of natural selection.
In a nutshell only those that can adapt to the environment survive.
But how can we apply this in the Forex market.
So let's put this into a diagram for a moment at the top we have one common ancestor and through mutation
you'll have three different or many many more.
But in this case for simplicity three different offspring.
One that is the least adapted to the environment will fail to survive and give more offspring.
These two will give offspring and then out of them in a natural way some of them will survive some of
them will fail to survive and so on.
So that's you can apply as giraffes you can apply as training animals and anything that happens in nature
how the genetic algorithm traded for works is it takes a set of parameters and then it varies it a little
bit.
So it goes up and down in one of the variables and goes up and down another variable and goes up and
down and in another variable and gets a set of parameters and then compares them they become more profitable
do they become less profitable.
So the ones that became less profitable die they basically don't get to reproduce they don't get to
continue in the optimization they excluded the ones that became more profitable while Medicare for adjust
the values of those PERRA of the variables in those parameters sets of parameters again.
And then you get some more results from this set some more results from this set and say if these die
out basically they become less profitable than men trade for stops optimizing them and doesn't continue
that.
Whereas these ones it again applies that iterative process.
So that's a very basic explanation of what men are trained for does in the background when you run a
genetic algorithm optimizations.
It's very similar.
This is brief optimization in each case a brief alteration of parameters is very similar to what we
discussed in one of the prior tutorials where we talked about precise optimization.
Well that's pretty much what happened administrator for just just's the Perlman's a very tiny bit to
see if it can improve the result that we see currently and it just keeps improving it step by step by
step to get a very good result.
So let's go over to megatrend for and see how that all plays out in reality.
So we've got a simple system version five point on over here with a set of parameters loaded as you
can see I've already set up optimization.
There's going to be a lot of back tests and this optimisation because a lot of steps are involved.
So we will check the genetic algorithms is off.
Click OK and just quickly see how all long it will take to optimize this on using every tick model.
So there's 560000 back tests that have to be conducted and on every tech model it'll take a hundred
and five hours to get this done.
So that's more than four days of time and just nonstop optimizing and you're probably not even guaranteed
that if you know your computer won't fail during this process.
So and as you can see it's slowly building up.
And of course this is a case when conventional methods will take too long to solve the problem at hand
.
And so if we stop that and then we go to open prices and we look at it and open prices even at open
prices.
It will take way too long.
It will take five hundred and six.
So it'll take 12 minutes to do this.
So if we go to inputs and I'll just change one of the inputs here say we'll do it five take Crawford
and we'll just click OK you'll see that say if we want to optimize like that then I'll take 39 minutes
and there's like 1.8 million or picturisation.
As you can see this is the optimization graph so it's just basically brute forcing through the sets
of parameters and it's just checking every single combination of those parameters and it's just going
to keep going until it goes through everything you see in the chart doesn't fit anymore.
So what are we going to do now is we going to apply the genetic algorithm and see if that's going to
speed up the process.
So all we have to do is go to the testing tab click genetic algorithms or here click OK and then click
start.
And what you'll see right away is much faster if you go to the optimization graph you can see how it's
slowly slowly climbing up getting more profitable.
And there you go it's already done.
So here out of the 1.8 million Ameritrade for usually goes through about 10000 or so parameters sets
of parameters and it limits the genetic algorithm optimization to that number.
And therefore it's much quicker and as you can see the graph is not just a sporadic graph.
It actually follows that logic that we discussed where it Metro tries to improve and improve and improve
the output every time.
And so just run that again.
And the interesting thing about this is that every time you will get a different result every time you
run the generic algorithm because of the way it's structured because it's like biology.
It's got a lot of randomness in it and therefore results will be different every time they look similar
but like here you can see it dropped off.
And so that was a good one so you can just keep rerunning it and just pick out the one that you really
like.
And sometimes you can get very good results that way.
So another thing I wanted to show you was that if you right click and you click to the surface which
we discussed in the previous tours you'll see that there's a lot of white spots and that basically means
like as it says here no result.
Meaning that the genetic algorithm never tried to pick the combination of these two parameters where
store hours 12 and mean people limit was five.
And you can change your axes around and say like we used to have.
So why axes was Stop-Loss and X actually was that Crawford.
And here you go you have a lot of white spaces again.
And remember there are located if we rerun the optimization now you'll see that they'll be located in
different places now because once again it's random.
So that's basically how this optimize this type of compression works and this also means that since
it's 10000 is always around 10000 runs that are made that that if you run on every tick model then it
will probably it won't be as long it won't be 100 hours it'll be much less and likes in this case just
under three hours so you can definitely get that to run and then do some analysis on that on the results
.
And also what you can do I also recommend The Sometimes I do this myself install for Ameritrade or for
terminals.
If your CPU and ram allows it install for Metro to four terminals and run for genetic algorithm tests
on every tick and because they're random they won't be the same results in each of the four terminals
and therefore your chances of getting good results are increased multiplied by four.
And that way it's much more efficient than running all of the tests for genetic algorithm in one terminal
.
So as you can see here for example and control points I will only take two minutes to pass through this
test.
So there you go.
That's what the genetic algorithm is in a nutshell and how it works and meditated for it can definitely
speed up your process of optimization especially when you have lots of parameters or if you have to
optimize on every tick the genetic algorithm can come in very handy.
And I recommend using the genetic algorithm in combination with multiple men or trader for terminal's
.
So that's all for today I hope you consider using the genetic algorithm in your optimizations and look
focusing on next tutorial Until then have trading